Before we go any further,
let's take a moment to talk about the page elements that we found here
and how we interact with page elements in general.
You'll notice that we had to use the WebElement interface in the last example,
and you can see here the Java docs defining the interface and its super
interfaces, as well as known implementing classes.
In our example,
you might recall that we didn't have a search box or an input element.
Instead, we just had this one interface, WebElement.
You'll find that all of the elements that exist on a page will
basically be accessed through a WebElement.
That may seem strange if you aren't used to using interfaces,
and at first, you may feel like you need to get an HTML table or a button.
But the WebElement is designed in such a way that it will let you
call the methods that you should be able to call on those
particular fields of focus on your page.
You can pretty much do everything you need to with a WebElement.
Now,
some of these methods are not going to work on every
single type of element you get back,
so you have to know a little bit about the context of the element yourself,
rather than using the API to discover what you can
do or can't do with that element.
This might be different than some APIs that you've may be used in the past.
Let's take a look at what WebElement can do for us.
Using WebElement, we have a clear,
clear which is just a call that will clear out a
field or box that we're on on a page.
For example, when we use an input or text field, we can clear that out.
If you call clear on something like a link,
it's not going to do anything. You just have to be aware of the context in
which you're calling this method. Click is obviously going to work on
something like a button, anything that can be clicked on and it's going to
fire that JavaScript of events. You can even use it on things that are
non‑buttoned and non‑links. You can call click on various aspects like a radio
button. You also call findElements,
so that you can nest this together. Let's say you find one element,
for example a table, and you want to find a row in that table.
Well, you can get the table first and then call findElement
or findElements to navigate through it.
You can get an attribute and a particular attribute that exists on an element.
You can get a CSS value associated with that defined element. And you
can also use sendKeys like we did in that previous demo and send those
keys to that element. In the case of input, it put that text into that
field and then you can submit it.
Some elements allow you to submit it,
for example a form, and we have some properties there as well.
You can also check to see if an element is displayed,
if it's enabled, where its location is, if it's been selected,
the size, and the actual tag names so you can figure out what you're looking at.
Did you actually get an anchor?
Did you get a table? Those types of attributes.
You can also grab the text associated with an element.
Again,
some of these properties aren't going to apply to every single element or
they're not going to make much sense to use them on that,
especially for methods,
but this is basically all that you need to go through and
automate any of the tests inside your application.
Using all of these things,
you can pretty much do anything that you need to on any page to navigate or manipulate that page for creating a test.